DoES Liverpool - The Handbook
=============================

Version 0.1-alpha
Work in Progress

No information here should be regarded as true!
No similarity to any persons, living or dead.


About this Handbook
-------------------

The aim of this handbook is to make our lives as easy as possible, by giving you all the information you need about DoES, what we do, the people that do it, and the space they do it in, in a handy written format - that way, nothing gets forgotten. Our hope is that this handbook answers any questions you might have, but, if by some fluke, you can’t find an answer to your query, then please ask another member of DoES Liverpool or seek out one of the organisers.  

Current organisers are:

Adrian McEwen         @amcewen
Steve Sparrow         @Polemiuk
Patrick Ferner        @DefProc
John McKerrell        @mcknut
Hakim Casimally       @osfameron
Paul Freeman          @oddessay


Welcome to DoES Liverpool!


What is DoES Liverpool?
-----------------------


### DoES Liverpool is a community

First and foremost DoES Liverpool is a community of people with a diverse range of skills and interests.   By joining the DoES community, you will get to mingle with entrepreneurs and company founders, artists and makers, developers and hardware engineers, academics and students (and many people that are less easy to label). All of this means that, should you need a particular skillset to help you complete a project, want to pool ideas with people who might work in a similar field to you, get a new perspective on your work from people who come from an entirely different background, or just have an interesting and diverse environment in which to work, then DoES is the place for you.
DoES Liverpool is a place

We are a co-working space located in the heart of Liverpool, with desks available to rent by the month or by the day. Our approach to hotdesking is flexible, allowing you to drop in and work without booking, and alleviating the boredom and routine of sitting in a home office on your own. We find that a change of scenery can often help to kickstart the cognitive process


The DoES workshop is well equipped with a range of electronics equipment, including 3d printers, a vacuum former, CNC mill and two laser cutters. Use of the lasers can be booked at fk, although you must be inducted on the equipment before using them - safety is paramount!

### DoES Liverpool hosts events

DoES Liverpool organises a range of regular, semi-regular and one-off events, hosted by a range of experts (as well as some very gifted and enthusiastic amateurs), there is something for just about everyone.
If you are interested in hosting an event which is relevant to the community - or which you think would be relevant to the community, if only they knew about it, or, indeed, which might not be relevant to the community, but which you just desperately need a home for - then let us know, and we’ll see what we can do.

### DoES Liverpool is a company

We are a Community Interest Company.  This means that any profit we make is fed back to help the community – making the space bigger, or buying more useful bits of kit. That means that every penny you spend on your time here at DoES goes back into making sure that you enjoy that time even more.
What do we aspire to be?
We want to be the place where you do your best work.  
We want to be the natural home for startups and businesses in Liverpool and beyond.  
We want to be a welcoming and friendly environment that inspires you and fosters collaboration between you and other community members. 
We want to stay true to our roots.  We are community based and we want to keep the freedom that that brings.
We want to support the growth of the region in a meaningful way - by doing rather than talking about it.  


Most of all we want you to be a part of our community and help us grow. If you would like to get involved please get in touch!


Things Nearby
-------------

Located at the heart of the City Centre there are far too many places to list here.  Here are a few of our favourites.  fk


How to Find Us
--------------

DoES Liverpool
Unit 3, Floor 4
Gostins Building
32-36 Hanover Street
Liverpool
L1 4LN


See www.doesliverpool.com/location/ for directions.
 
Our core opening hours are:


Monday - Friday: 9:30am - 5:30pm
Saturday & Sunday: Closed

Bank Holidays: Closed


How to find us Online
---------------------


Web: www.doesliverpool.com


Email: hello@doesliverpool.com


Twitter: @doesliverpool


Flickr:  www.flickr.com/photos/doesliverpool/

IRC:  #doesliverpool on irc.freenode.net


DoES Wiki:  wiki.doesliverpool.com/ 



### DoES Wiki


The DoES Wiki is a treasure trove of information about DoES, and will tell you almost everything you need to know about how we work. It’s also a collaborative project, so much of the content is generated by the users, ensuring that you will get the point of view of the people we work for, as well as a real user experience of the equipment here at DoES, warts and all. If you have something to share, feel free to do so - and if you’re not comfortable doing it yourself, let us know what you think we’re missing, and someone will (eventually!) add it. You should be registered automatically but if you have problems please email hello@doesliverpool.com and we will get back to you asap.  

### DoES Calendars


Details of upcoming events and meetups are available at www.doesliverpool.com/calendar/. 
Laser cutter availabity is over at www.doesliverpool.com/calendar/laser-cutter-calendar/


### The DoES mailing list


http://groups.google.com/group/DoES-Liverpool


One of the best ways to get involved in the DoES community is to sign up for the Google Group.   Here you can ask questions, offer advice or post notices about upcoming events both at DoES and around the region if you think they’ll be of interest to the community. 


Most importantly the Google Group is open to anyone not just residents and users of the DoES Liverpool space.  Events on the DoES mailing list are picked up by many other networks so you will reach a very diverse audience.
  
For more information on signing up please visit www.doesliverpool.com/get-involved/. 
 
### Weeknotes 

Another advantage of being on the Google Group is that every week we publish details of the interesting things that members of DoES Liverpool have been up to over the past seven days. You can find out a bit more about these ‘week notes’ in www.doesliverpool.com/uncategorized/talking-about-ourselves/
 
### Contacting DoES Liverpool Organisers

If you need to contact any or all of the DoES Organisers then email organisers@doesliverpool.com but please remember to check for answers on  wiki.doesliverpool.com first! It is always better to email all of the organisers so that your query doesn’t get missed.   If your question is a more general query or request for help then you should consider sending it to the DoES Google Group. 


DoES Services 
-------------

DoES Liverpool has two office spaces available for people wanting either a permanent desk, which are taken on a monthly basis, or a hotdesk, taken on a daily basis.  The price you pay for the desk includes free WiFi, tea, coffee or cordial and free access to the workshop.

### Permanent Co-Working Desk

Desks with a lockable storage facility are available for £150 per calendar month on a rolling contract with a one month notice period. These desks allow you to leave your equipment here in DoES rather than having to bring everything with you every day, and ensure that no matter how busy we are, you will always be able to work here in DoES.

Access is available from 9:30am – 5:30pm Monday to Friday (but not public holidays). 
If you would like to discuss taking a permanent co-working desk please contact one of the organisers via hello@doesliverpool.com

### Hot Desking

Hot desking is available for £10 per day, or £5 for a half day.
Access is available from 9:30am to 5:30pm (but not public holidays).
 
Prior to your first hot desking visit it is best to email hello@doesliverpool.com to check that someone will be available to show you around the space, although if you do happen to be in the area and just want to pop in, the likelihood is that there won’t be any issues. After your first visit you can simply turn up and speak to an organiser to hotdesk.

Your first hot desk day is free if you bring cake!

If you would like to try hot desking at DoES Liverpool (or even if you are considering taking a permanent desk) you can get your first day free if you bring cake (or other shareable snack if you prefer!). And don’t worry, if you want to spread this across two half day sessions, we’re happy for you to do so.

### Workshop Access

Workshop membership is available for £30 per calendar month.  Membership grants you access to all the equipment in the workshop and a storage container for your materials. 

### Friends who DoES

If you would like to support DoES but you don’t need a desk or workshop access then why not become a Friend who Does Epic Shit?

You’ll get your own, lovingly laser-engraved membership card and a whole host of exciting benefits that we haven’t quite worked out yet.  Friends who DoES costs £9 per Month.  You can find more information and a list of current friends over at wiki.doesliverpool.com/FriendsOfDoES

### Event Space Hire

If you would like to hold an event at the DoES Liverpool space please get in touch via organisers@doesliverpool.com.  
 
### Payment

The preferred method of payment is by bank transfer.  Invoices are issued by email with all the details you will require.  If you cannot pay by bank transfer then you can arrange to pay one of the DoES organisers in cash by prior arrangement.

### Induction 
 
### The Space

### The Workshop

### Kitchen

The kitchen is located next to the workshop.  You will need rfid dongle to get access.  If you don’t have one then you can use one of the communal cards hanging up in the main office next to Room 29.
 
Please keep the kitchen tidy. 
 
Tea, coffee & cordial are free to hot-deskers and people with a permanent desk.  Please just help yourself.  
 
The coffee machine at DoES is, as you would expect, connected to the Internet.  The CoffeeBot allows you to check if there is coffee in the pot from the comfort of your desk.  For more information see wiki.doesliverpool.com/CoffeeBot
 
Cans, bottled water and crisps are available at cost.  Please put money in the kitty jar by the fridge.
  
There is usually beer in the fridge.  Please note that this is for events only and is *not* for sale.  
 
Please recycle!  You will find recycling bins for cardboard, cans, plastic bottles and paper in the workshop next to the kitchen. Please recycle your waste.  


### Dinky


### The Main Room


### Room 29


### Opening Times


### Doorbot


### Desks & Hotdesking 


DoES offers hotdesking facilities charged at £8 per day.  Prior to your first visit it is best to email hello@doesliverpool.com to check that someone will be available to show you around.  Your first day of hotdesking is FREE if you bring cake to share!  After you have been shown around you can simply turn up and If you would like to hotdesk you can simply turn up and ask to speak to an organiser.  


### Events

Regular Monthly Events at DoES Liverpool


For an up to date list of events please check the official calendar at www.doesliverpool.com/calendar/
Some of the regular monthly events hosted at DoES include:

Name – More information
 
 * Liverpool Sewing Club Beth Edmondson https://twitter.com/liverpoolsewing
 * Clojure Dojo http://liverpoolclojuredojo-es2.eventbrite.co.uk/?rank=6 Simon Holgate
 * Geekup Liverpool John McKerrell
 * Startup Thursday Simon Holgate http://startupthursday.eventbrite.co.uk/
 * Maker Day
 * Maker Night

### One Off Events

Note: There is a mix of events organised by DoES Liverpool and run by other people within the DoES Space so check the contact details for any event you are interested in.

 * Maker Night
 * Maker Day
 * Clojure Dojo
 * BreakerFaire
 * Geek Up
 * Barcamp Liverpool

### Previous Events


### Rules
	
Please note that whilst we make every effort to make sure that DoES is secure we cannot be held responsible for anything left in the space. If you leave anything you do so at your own risk.  

### Access


### Health & Safety

If you have an accident at DoES it needs to be recorded in the Accident Log.  A link to the log is on the wiki at wiki.doesliverpool.com/AccidentLog

### The Workshop

Fresh-Stale-LastChance (FSLC) Box System

Space is at a premium in DoES.  We have many things donated to us that "someone might find this useful to use in a project". Unfortunately there is  we usually have more stuff donated than there is time for members to use in projects. 

It would be quite easy for all our available space to get used up storing old junk that no-one wants to use immediately, but that some unspecified person might want in the future.  To try and manage we place a strict limit on the amount of space allowed for donated stuff and we operate a Fresh-Stale-LastChance (FSLC) Box System.  Using FSLC we can make best use of our available space as new donations push old donations out to be recycled or otherwise disposed of. 

### How it works

If you've got something that you don't want any more, put it into the Fresh box on the racking in the workshop.
Anyone can take any of the things in any of the three boxes - labelled Fresh, Stale and Last Chance on the racking in the workshop. However, if you take something you must either store it in your member box, or take it home.
At each Maker Day, the contents of the Last Chance box will be disposed of, and the empty box will become the new Fresh box. The Stale box becomes the new Last Chance box, and the Fresh box becomes the new Stale box.

### Kitchen 


### Children

We have a number of events aimed at getting young people interested in making, creating and coding.  We always welcome children with a responsible adult   If you do bring young people into DoES Liverpool please remember that there are many dangerous tools lying around. and many sharp/hot bits of equipment within easy reach.   Never leave your young person unattended and please respect the fact that DoES is a working environment.  

### Storage Space


### Consumables


### Tools & Equipment


### Laser Cutter

The laser cutter is the most popular piece of kit in the workshop.  At busy times of the year it is best to book it in well in advance of your intended visit.  You can check availability at www.doesliverpool.com/calendar/laser-cutter-calendar/ and then email organisers to book your session.

First time users of the laser cutter need to be inducted/trained so please email organisers@doesliverpool.com when you’re planning on coming over so we can make sure that someone is available. There is a lot of useful laser cutting information on wiki.doesliverpool.com/LaserCutter and it is helpful if you have browsed this before your induction.  Obvious things to check are the size of the cutting area and the type of materials you can cut. 

DoES has a limited supply of materials available at cost.  For people wishing to do larger jobs there is a list of suppliers on the wiki.  

If you plan on doing something unusual then please consider sharing your knowledge by documenting your progress on the wiki.

Access to the workshop and the laser cutter is charged at £8 per day or £30 per month if you want regular workshop access (and a place to store your materials).

Most users of the laser cutter use Inkscape which is a free, open source, vector drawing package available for Windows, Mac and Linux.  You can download it from http://inkscape.org/

There is a lot of practical information, tips and tricks on the wiki http://wiki.doesliverpool.com/LaserCutter.  

### 3d Printing

DoES Liverpool has two 3d Printers. 

 * http://wiki.doesliverpool.com/RepRapPrusaMendel

### Booking the laser cutter

#### Induction & Training


### Refreshments

Tea, coffee & cordial is free to hot-deskers and people with a permanent desk.
Cans, bottled water and crisps are available at cost.  Please put money in the kitty jar by the fridge.  
There is beer in the fridge for events but this is not for sale.  

### Reference information 

There is a lot of practical information, tips and tricks on the wiki http://wiki.doesliverpool.com/LaserCutter.  

 * 3d Printers
 * Rep Rap Prusa Mendel
 * Makerbot Cupcake
 * Vacuum Former
 * Kinect Scanner
 * Polar Graph
 * CNC Mill
 * Laser Printer
 * Bubblino
 * Where Dial
 * Little Printer
 * YAHMs http://wiki.doesliverpool.com/DoESCentralHeating
 * Polargraph http://wiki.doesliverpool.com/PolarGraph
 * Webcams
 * 3d Printers
 * Vacuum Former http://wiki.doesliverpool.com/VacuumFormer
 * Kinect Scanner
 * Polar Graph
 * CNC Mill — The CNC Mill is a work in progress.  Read more and get involved wiki.doesliverpool.com/CNCMill

### Supplies


###	Pledge Drives

Pledge drives allow us (and you) to raise funds for things that will enhance the space or are of wider benefit to the community.  They are a great way to fund big items like workshop equipment or expensive specialist tools. You can find a list of the current open pledge drives on the wiki wiki.doesliverpool.com/DoESPledges
	
If you would like to start a pledge drive simply add it to the open pledges on the pledge drive wiki page. 

If you follow the naming convention of using Pledge <Thing> where <thing> has a capital letter in it it will show up as a link.  Clicking on the link will enable you to create a new page to describe the pledge in more detail.   It is always a good idea to look at the format of other pledges to work out what you should include.  Finally, remember to post a message to the DoES Liverpool Google Group to drum up support.  

http://wiki.doesliverpool.com/DoESPledges

### Recycling

You will also find recycling bins for cardboard, cans, plastic bottles, etc.

### Library


### Questions & Queries


### FAQs

Extended hours access to workshop is an additional 
£50 for workshop
and £150 for office - whenever building is open
 
Book the laser 
What can the laser cutter cut
Clean Desk Policy?
Coffee - Turn it off if you empty or almost empty.  Feel free to put more coffee on.  If it is the afternoon then don’t put a full pot on.  Aeropress if single pot. 

How to make the perfect cup of coffee.
8 on the jug - 1 level cup
12 is 1 and a ¼ to 1 1/3
